;Syltiaria acts more like a natural language. It has flexible expression and loose grammar. It is used to control magical machineries and weave complex functions.
;All parts of Syltiaria should be easy to read, therefore the symbols are to be removed. However, in programming the symbols are selectable to improve code readability.
;The base of Syltiaria is simple. The magical machinery controls a body, or part of a body to move to a specific place, or let it have a velocity or acceleration with the magic force/power.
;The magic power is a general name, corresponding to all kinds of powers in real life. All material with chemical and mass power possess 'magic power'. People use the magic power just as what we do.
;The realization of this language is not yet considered. This sample provides some simple applications.


;this is a function and can be called easily or the language must be impractical.
;chinese characteristics will be avoided to be used in function names, despite that they are actually available. However, pinyin might appear in the function names.
;Functions are wroten and stored in the machine memories and do not need to be \utaed.
FUNCTION luming (P, {λ,}, S, {Shape}) ; the function is used to emit light. the parameters are selectable.
;P is the power, {λ,} specify the wavelength(s) of the light. S is the emission solid angle. Shape controls the shape of light source in a limited range.
if unset (P=1 λ=ALL S=4pi Shape=point) end
terminal pos; the terminal can be a wand or an I/O interface of a machine.
mari P -> photon @ λ ; transfer mari power to light energy
rele pos photon
END

;code in Syltiaria style:
meson luming P lam S Sinzo
yo malse P de 1 lam de CHON S de 4pi Sinzo de tin
tammo izu
mari P io goun
selib izu goun e

function mise(pos, P, {λ,}, content, reso) ; to show words or pictures to other people. This is in fact very complex and too difficult for me. It works as 'print' in the novel.
if unset (pos=0 P=0.1 λ=ALL) end
if set λ
for content(0) to content(-1)
if content(now)=word content(now)=content(now) with λ end
end
end
pixel content array1 @reso
space {pos}
mari P -> photon in array1 
rele pos photon
end

;code in Syltiaria style:
meson mise izu P lam neavo cizovio
yo malse izu de 0 P de 0.1 lam de CHON e
yo se lam
zia neavo 0 do neavo -1
yo neavo nao de vorj
neavo nao de neavo nao hon lam e e e
shaso neavo jabelo1 a cizovio
korco izu
mari P io goun i jabelo1
selib izu goun e


PRO HELLOWORLD;THIS IS AN EXECUTE PARAGRAPH, USE 'EXEC' IN THE TERMINAL TO EXECUTE IT, AS IN HYMMNOS.
mise 'HELLOWORLD'
END

;code in Syltiaria style:
fioph HELLOWORLD
mise 'HELLOWORLD' e

;an execute statement in terminal
exec HELLOWORLD

;code in Syltiaria style:
keas HELLOWORLD
